#summary ESRI should pay attention to their own forums. If they did, DS Mapbook would have it's own category!

= How popular is mapbook? =

On 2007-Sept-21 I (MattWilkie) counted unique DS Mapbook threads, as determined by searching for _"DS Mapbook"_ and ignoring any result which starts with "RE:" or was started in the middle of another thread. I stopped looking after the 7th page of search results. I complemented the set a little by also searching for just "mapbook", and followed the same logic as above.

Summary:

 * 671 messages in 36 threads
 * 587 messages in the top 4 threads, or 87%
 * 540 messages in the top 2 threads, or 80%


In the last 3 months there are have been 15,621 messages across all 48 forae.
The top 10 threads are:

 * _# messages, Thread Title_
 * 372 DS Map Book (Map Series Layout)
 * 168 DS MapBook - New Version
 *  63 Coordinate Shifting
 *  59 All fields are "null" after a join
 *  54 Raster Projection Problems
 *  49 Does ESRI Approve of Python 2.4?
 *  47 Arc9 Zoom Bug
 *  45 Windows Installer runs every time I run ArcGIS
 *  43 Why a file geodatabase?
 *  43 Admin Install - Service Packs

Taking the top two out, both Mapbook, leaves 403 messages for the remaining eight Top 10. Leaving mapbook with a healthy 137 message lead.

wow. 

I have the raw data if anyone wants to dig deeper. For example the total 15k messages are split across 4,249 threads; plus an additional 560 threads which were never responded to at all.

Also keep in mind developers are more likely to split multi-faceted topics into discrete threads while end users tend to clump things together. However even taking that into account mapbook's 671 posts are 22% of the 3,084 developer-specific messages found across 8 ArcObjects forums.

The raw data is posted at http://forums.esri.com/Thread.asp?c=93&f=989&t=236371 (same thread, different pile... :) 